A technique called Gibbs sampling,
named after the Physicist Josiah Gibbs,
takes all the evidence into account,
not just the upstream evidence.
It uses a method called
Markov Chain Monte Carlo, or MCMC.
The idea is that we resample
just one variable at a time,
conditioned on all the others.
That is, we have a set of variables and
we initialize them to random variables,
keeping the evidence values fixed.
Maybe we have values like this and
that constitutes one sample.
And now, at each iteration through
the loop, we select just one
non-evidence variable and resample
it based on all the other variables.
And that will give us another sample and
repeat that again.
Choose another variable,
resample that variable and repeat.
We end up walking around in this base
of assignments of variables randomly.
Now, in rejection and
likelihood sampling, each sample was
independent of the other samples.
In MCMC, that's not true.
The samples are dependent on each other,
and
in fact,
adjacent samples are very similar.
They only vary or differ in one place.
However, the technique
is still consistent.
You won't show the proof for that